Add info whitelisted proposals (#4935)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/maintain/maintain-guides-polkadot-opengov.md

![preimage](../assets/governance/opengov-preimage-submitted.png)

### Submitting a Preimage to Whitelist

Let's take the example where you would like to change the network protocol, like increasing the active validator count. You could [submit a preimage](#submitting-a-preimage) with the call that sets the number of validators to 1000 and submit a referenda proposal to the Root track directly, or if the Polkadot Technical Fellowship is on board with the proposal, the call could be whitelisted and then be submitted to the Whitelist track in Polkadot OpenGov. Below are the steps to follow when submitting a proposal to the Whitelist track. You [submit a preimage](#submitting-a-preimage) with the call that sets the number of validators encapsulated this way - 
  `whitelist.dispatchWhitelistedCallWhithPreimage(call)` and obtain preimage hash. If the call is submitted directly, it will not be successfully executed by the Whitelist origin.

![preimage-whitelist](../assets/governance/opengov-submit-preimage-whitelist.png)

> - The Polkadot fellowship needs to start a fellowship referendum to whitelist the call with `whitelist.whitelistCall(callHash)`

Reviewer: Is `callHash` here the Preimage Hash of the above `whitelist.dispatchWhitelistedCallWhithPreimage(call)`?

If so i think `preimageHash` would be easier to understand than `callHash`.

Reviewer 2: No, it is the hash of the `call`.

Reviewer: Would it be helpful if explicitly stated that the call hash can be found at the `encoded call hash` in the JS Apps UI Extrinsics page.

![preimage](../assets/governance/opengov-preimage-submitted.png)

### Submitting a Preimage to Whitelist

> Let's take the example that you would like to increase the active validator count to 1000.
> 
> - You [submit a preimage](#submitting-a-preimage) with the call that sets the number of validators
>   to 1000. Note that the call must be of the form
>   `whitelist.dispatchWhitelistedCallWhithPreimage(call)`. Failing to do so will result in your
>   whitelisted call being rejected.
> 
> ![preimage-whitelist](../assets/governance/opengov-submit-preimage-whitelist.png)
> 
> - You could directly submit this to Root track or go through the whitelisting process with the
>   Technical Fellowship. If whitelisted, your proposal will take less time to be voted on and enacted
>   than choosing the Root track.
> - If you go through the fellowship, you will need to provide them with the preimage and hash details
>   of the call for your proposal.
> - Someone from the fellowship will create a fellowship referendum to whitelist that call, and it
>   will be voted on by the fellowship members only.
> - Once the call is whitelisted, you can [submit a referenda proposal](#submitting-a-proposal) with
>   whitelist origin.
> - The public now votes on the referendum after placing a decision deposit.
> - Once passed, it gets enacted successfully as the call has been whitelisted.
> 
> Note that you can also submit the public referendum while the fellowship is voting on the fellowship
> referendum to whitelist your call. This comes with the risk that if the fellowship declines to
> whitelist the call, you must submit it directly to the Root origin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's take the example where you would like to change the network protocol, like increasing the active validator count. You could [submit a preimage](#submitting-a-preimage) with the call that sets the number of validators to 1000 and submit a referenda proposal to the Root track directly, or if the Polkadot Technical Fellowship is on board with the proposal, the call could be whitelisted and then be submitted to the Whitelist track in Polkadot OpenGov. Below are the steps to follow when submitting a proposal to the Whitelist track. You [submit a preimage](#submitting-a-preimage) with the call that sets the number of validators encapsulated this way - 
  `whitelist.dispatchWhitelistedCallWhithPreimage(call)` and obtain preimage hash. If the call is submitted directly, it will not be successfully executed by the Whitelist origin.

![preimage-whitelist](../assets/governance/opengov-submit-preimage-whitelist.png)

- The Polkadot fellowship needs to start a fellowship referendum to whitelist the call with `whitelist.whitelistCall(callHash)`
-  The fellowship referendum gets voted on by the Polkadot fellowship members only.
- Once the call is whitelisted, you can [submit a referenda proposal](#submitting-a-proposal) with
  whitelist origin with  `whitelist.dispatchWhitelistedCallWhithPreimage(call)` .
- The public now votes on the referendum after placing a decision deposit.
- Once passed, it gets enacted successfully as the call has been whitelisted.

Note that you can also submit the public referendum while the fellowship is voting on the fellowship
referendum to whitelist your call. This comes with the risk that if the fellowship declines to
whitelist the call, you must submit it directly to the Root origin.
```

specific number of blocks after the referendum is approved. The deposit for this proposal will be
locked for the referendum duration.

### Submitting a Referendum on the Whitelisted Caller Track

> Let's consider increasing the active validator count. You could

Reviewer 3: <img width="841" alt="image" src="https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-wiki/assets/86818441/83986b8a-23d5-4a7d-a187-7dc6ea088871">

The example call sets the number of validators participating in the parachain consensus. Modifying the text to reflect that.

```suggestion
Let's consider increasing the number of validators participating in parachain consensus. You could
```

so that it can pass more quickly. This track is typically used for more neutral, technical proposals
like runtime upgrades or changing the system's parachain validation configuration.

Using the Whitelisted Caller track requires some special calls. Submitting a referendum in the same
form as other tracks will not work. Namely, rather than voting on a particular `proposal`, the
Whitelisted Caller track requires a vote to `dispatch` the `proposal` via the Whitelist pallet.
Before opening a referendum on this track, you should also attempt to get a positive signal from the
Fellowship that they will whitelist the proposal. If they do not, then even if the public referendum
passes, it will not execute.

Below are the steps to follow when submitting a proposal to the Whitelist track.

- [Submit a preimage](#submitting-a-preimage) with the call to _dispatch_ the proposal (`call`) you
  want to submit -- `whitelist.dispatchWhitelistedCallWhithPreimage(call)` -- and obtain the
  preimage hash. This is the preimage for the _public referendum_ on the Whitelisted Caller track.

![preimage-whitelist](../assets/governance/opengov-submit-preimage-whitelist.png)

> - Obtain the hash of `call`. The Polkadot Fellowship needs to start a Fellowship referendum to
>   whitelist the call with `whitelist.whitelistCall(callHash)`. The Fellowship referendum gets voted
>   on by the Polkadot Fellowship members only.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Obtain the hash of `call`. The Polkadot Fellowship needs to start a Fellowship referendum to
  whitelist the call with `whitelist.whitelistCall(callHash)`. The Fellowship referendum gets voted
  on by the Polkadot Fellowship members only.
  
  ![call-hash](../assets/governance/encoded-call-hash.png)
  
```

form as other tracks will not work. Namely, rather than voting on a particular `proposal`, the
Whitelisted Caller track requires a vote to `dispatch` the `proposal` via the Whitelist pallet.
Before opening a referendum on this track, you should also attempt to get a positive signal from the
Fellowship that they will whitelist the proposal. If they do not, then even if the public referendum
passes, it will not execute.

Below are the steps to follow when submitting a proposal to the Whitelist track.

- [Submit a preimage](#submitting-a-preimage) with the call to _dispatch_ the proposal (`call`) you
  want to submit -- `whitelist.dispatchWhitelistedCallWhithPreimage(call)` -- and obtain the
  preimage hash. This is the preimage for the _public referendum_ on the Whitelisted Caller track.

![preimage-whitelist](../assets/governance/opengov-submit-preimage-whitelist.png)

- Obtain the hash of `call`. The Polkadot Fellowship needs to start a Fellowship referendum to
  whitelist the call with `whitelist.whitelistCall(callHash)`. The Fellowship referendum gets voted
  on by the Polkadot Fellowship members only.
- If the Polkadot Fellowship whitelists the call, you can

>   [submit your proposal](#submitting-a-proposal) for public referendum to the Whitelist Caller Track

Reviewer 2: This is wrong and makes things less clear.

>   (if you still did not do it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Submitting a Referendum on the Whitelisted Caller Track

> Let's consider increasing the active validator count, which requires Root origin. You could

Reviewer 2: why?

  [submit your proposal](#submitting-a-proposal) for public referendum to the Whitelist Caller Track
  (if you still did not do it).
- The public votes on the referendum. Someone must place a decision deposit to go into the deciding
  phase. Failing to fulfill this requirement can lead to

>   [timeout](../learn/learn-polkadot-opengov.md#referenda-timeline).

Reviewer 2: This is not specific to Whitelisted Caller.

  Fellowship.

Note that the public referendum and Fellowship referendum can happen simultaneously. However, if the

> Fellowship does not whitelist the call; you must submit it directly to the Root origin.

Reviewer 2: No! Comma.
